Thoracic aneurysm is a classic location of aortic aneurysm.

Abdominal aneurysm is a classic location of aortic aneurysm.

Tertiary syphilis is a classic cause of thoracic aortic aneurysm.

Syphilis is an end-arteritis disease that affects the vasa vasorum.

Damage to the vasa vasorum causes poor blood supply that weakens the aortic wall.

Weakening of the aortic wall leads to aneurysm formation.

Tree-bark appearance of the aorta is a classic finding in tertiary syphilis.

Tree-bark appearance results from fibrosis and scarring due to poor blood supply of the aortic wall.

Aortic insufficiency is a complication of thoracic aneurysm.

Aortic insufficiency occurs because dilation of the aorta pulls valve leaflets apart and prevents proper closure.

Compression of mediastinal structures is a complication of thoracic aneurysm.

Thrombosis in the wall of an aneurysm occurs due to disruption of laminar blood flow.

Thrombus in an aneurysm can embolize.

The most common site of abdominal aortic aneurysm is below the renal arteries and above the aortic bifurcation.

The vasa vasorum stops at the level of the renal artery bifurcation.

Atherosclerosis of the aorta below the renal arteries leads to media atrophy due to poor diffusion of nutrients and gases.

Media atrophy weakens the aortic wall and leads to aneurysm.

The abdominal aorta is the most common location of atherosclerosis in humans.

A classic presentation of abdominal aortic aneurysm is a male older than 60 years with smoking history and hypertension.

Abdominal aortic aneurysm presents with a pulsatile abdominal mass that grows with time.

Rupture is a major complication of abdominal aortic aneurysm.

Risk of rupture increases when aneurysm diameter exceeds 5 cm.

Ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm presents with hypotension, pulsatile abdominal mass, and flank pain.

Aortic dissection presents with tearing chest pain that radiates to the back.

The most common cause of death in aortic dissection is cardiac tamponade.

Aortic dissection can also cause death by the aorta bursting open.

Aortic dissection can cause obstruction of arteries that branch off the aorta.

Hypertension is a major risk factor for aortic dissection.

Vasculitis is a risk factor for aortic dissection.
