Infarction is tissue necrosis due to lack of oxygen.

Ischemia is inadequate blood supply to an organ.

Hypoxemia is defined as PaO₂ less than 60 mm Hg.

Early myocardial infarction is defined as occurring before age 55 in men and before age 45 in women.

The three most common causes of chest pain in the outpatient setting are GERD, anxiety, and costochondral tenderness.

Pain of myocardial infarction is usually described as pressure, like an elephant sitting on the chest.

Pleuritic chest pain is sharp in quality.

ST depression in the aVR lead is more specific for pericarditis.

The most common cause of ischemic heart disease is atherosclerosis of coronary arteries.

Risk factors for ischemic heart disease are the same as for atherosclerosis, including age, sex, race, smoking, hypertension, and diabetes.

Ischemia lasts about 20 minutes before irreversible injury to cardiac myocytes occurs.

Stable angina causes chest pain that develops with physical or emotional stress.

Stable angina is caused by more than 70 percent stenosis of coronary arteries.

During stable angina, cardiac myocytes undergo reversible injury.

Stable angina presents with chest pain lasting less than 20 minutes that may radiate to the left arm or jaw.

If chest pain lasts more than 20 minutes, myocardial infarction with irreversible myocyte damage occurs.

Stable angina may present with diaphoresis and shortness of breath.

Pain of stable angina is relieved by rest or nitroglycerin.

EKG in stable angina shows ST segment depression.

Stable angina causes subendocardial ischemia because coronary vessels travel in the epicardium and the endocardium is the last region to receive blood.

Unstable angina causes chest pain at rest.

Unstable angina is due to rupture of an atherosclerotic plaque with thrombosis and incomplete occlusion of a coronary artery.

Plaque rupture usually occurs at the neck of the plaque.

During unstable angina, myocytes undergo reversible injury.

Pain of unstable angina is relieved by nitroglycerin due to venodilation reducing cardiac workload.

Unstable angina has high risk of progression to myocardial infarction because the thrombus can grow.

EKG in unstable angina shows ST depression.
